<!-- deno-fmt-ignore-file -->

---

title: Meta's Above & Beyond Computer Science Program
publish_date: 2022-07-18
snippet: Everything I learned in the 10 week technical interview workshop with Meta.

---

## Week 1: Arrays & Strings

### Why Arrays?

#### Pros

- Reading and writing in `O(1)` time.
- Occupies contiguous memory and can be completely loaded into CPU cache which makes them quickly accessible.
- Can be used as a backing data structure for other data structures like stacks, queues, heaps. These are known as abstract data types (ADT).

#### Cons

- Not dynamic, i.e. cannot add or remove elements. It is not designed to grow or shrink. Mostly for complied languages.
- Adding to full size array of `n` elements, we need to create another new array of size `2n` and copy the items.
- Creating a large array to solve the problem above, a lot of space is wasted.

### Sorting Arrays

Two families of sorting algorithms:

1. `O(n^2)`
1. `O(nlog(n))`

Properties of sorting algorithms:

- Stable: An algorithm that maintains the relative order of equal elements.
- Online: An algorithm that can be applied to a stream of data.
- In-Place: An algorithm that works on the same array as the input.

| Algorithm      | Stable | Online | In-Place | Time Complexity                          | Space Complexity |
| -------------- | ------ | ------ | -------- | ---------------------------------------- | ---------------- |
| Bubble Sort    | Yes    | No     | Yes      | `O(n^2)`                                 | `O(1)`           |
| Selection Sort | No     | No     | Yes      | `O(n^2)`                                 | `O(1)`           |
| Insertion Sort | Yes    | Yes    | Yes      | `O(n^2)`                                 | `O(1)`           |
| Merge Sort     | Yes    | No     | Yes      | `O(nlog(n))`                             | `O(n)`           |
| Quick Sort     | No     | No     | No       | `O(nlog(n))`                             | `O(log(n))`      |
| Heap Sort      | no     | No     | No       | `O(nlog(n))`                             | `O(1)`           |
| Counting Sort  | No     | No     | No       | `O(n+k)` where k is the range of numbers | `O(1)`           |

### Strings

Strings are special type of arrays, namely made out of characters.

Fascinating properties of strings in JavaScript:

- In JavaScript, strings are represented using a binary tree, specifically the rope data structure.
- Certain operations such as string concatenation are highly optimized, `O(1)` amortized, `O(log(n))` without re-balancing instead of `O(n)`.

## Week 2: Recursion

Nothing much, basically get your base case and then your inductive step right. Recursive solution can almost always be implemented iteratively. But in many cases, it is harder and more error prone; typically, the added complexity outweighs the benefits.

Example:

```python
def reverse(head: Optional[ListNode]) -> Optional[ListNode]:
  if head is None or head.next is None:
    return head

  reversed_list = self.reverse(head.next)
  head.next.next = head
  head.next = None

  return reversed_list
```

## Week 3: Trees

For trees the most important things are some of the mathematical properties.

- Height: `h`
- Max Nodes of level l: `2^(l-1)`
- Max nodes of height h: `2^h - 1`
- With N nodes, min height: `log(N+1)` (base 2)
- With k leaves, min height: `log(k) + 1` (base 2)
- Number of leaf nodes is always one more than nodes with two children
