<!-- deno-fmt-ignore-file -->

---

title: Everything Frontend!
publish_date: 2022-07-25
snippet: Everything that I learned while preparing for frontend interviews.

---

## JavaScript

### Why you might want to create static class members.

Static class members (properties/methods) are not tied to a specific instance of a class and have the same value regardless of which instance is referring to it. Static properties are typically configuration variables and static methods are usually pure utility functions which do not depend on the state of the instance.

### Describe event bubbling.

When an event triggers on a DOM element, it will attempt to handle the event if there is a listener attached, then the event is bubbled up to its parent and the same thing happens. This bubbling occurs up the element's ancestors all the way to the `document`. Event bubbling is the mechanism behind [event delegation](#what-is-event-delegation).

We can override this behavior by using the `stopPropagation()` method.

```js
event.stopPropagation();
```

#### What is event delegation?

Event delegation is a technique involving adding event listeners to a parent element **instead of adding them to child elements**. The listener is fired when the event occurs on a descendant element due to the event bubbling up the DOM.

Benefits:

- Memory footprint goes down because only one single handler is needed on the parent element, rather than having to attach event handlers on each descendant.
- There is no need to unbind the handler from elements that are removed and to bind the event for new elements.

Example:

```html
<ul id="parent-list">
  <li id="post-1">Item 1</li>
  <li id="post-2">Item 2</li>
  <li id="post-3">Item 3</li>
  <li id="post-4">Item 4</li>
  <li id="post-5">Item 5</li>
  <li id="post-6">Item 6</li>
</ul>
```

```js
// Get the element, add a click listener...
document.getElementById("parent-list").addEventListener("click", function (e) {
  // e.target is the clicked element!
  // If it was a list item
  if (e.target && e.target.nodeName == "LI") {
    // List item found!  Output the ID!
    console.log(
      "List item ",
      e.target.id.replace("post-", ""),
      " was clicked!"
    );
  }
});
```

#### Explain how `this` works in JavaScript.

## Reference

Mostly referenced from [frontendinterviewhandbook.com](https://www.frontendinterviewhandbook.com/).
